README.md, before:

# Picture Picker

This program has been created to enable the selection of the most similar pictures from a list of pictures. Those pictures have been labelled with Google Vision API. (example in the JSON file)

## Use case

A user posts a picture on an app, we might assume that they would be interested in posts similar to theirs, or at least referring to similar content. One way to do this might be to find other posts with similar images to theirs. As an example, we have a dataset of labels from the Google Cloud Vision API from 20 plant images.
(see `data.json`).

## Challenge

If I were to post any one of the 20 images, which of the other 19 would be relevant to show to me as "other posts like yours"? 

Write an algorithm that uses the data we provide to figure out which images are most similar.

## Approach

To begin, I searched how data could be used to compare those pictures. I found that each picture has a list of labels with 2 key information:

- the label description (which is what Google Cloud API identifies)

- the score (which is the confidence the ML model has in its relevance)

I started to only use the label and create the algorithm, then I added the score and the option to return a batch of best pictures.

- 1 - I gather the information about the picture we want to find a similar picture to. I call it 'chosen pic'. In this particular case, this is one picture from the data file. In a real situation, the posted picture would go through the Google Cloud Vision API and return the same data format. So, I go through the data and get the description from each label, which gives me the 'chosen descs'.
  - Here I could narrow down those descriptions by taking only those with a score higher than 0.85 for example, so, I would optimize its efficiency.

- 2 - I gather the information about the pictures we already have in order to show the most relevant one. Here, this is where there is a higher level of complexity because we have to run the same algorithm as for one picture but for all pictures.
  - We could have all previously analysed pictures already ready to compare and do an updated analysis from the ML from time to time. Also, we could place filters to reduce the number of analysed pictures, such as date posted, location or number of likes.

- 3 - I rank every picture comparison to the chosen picture. Here, I go through every description of every picture and I increment the rank if the description matches, on average, this file has 10 descriptions for one picture. So, if I compare 1 picture to 1 picture, I would go through 10 times 10 comparisons, so 100. For, 20 pictures, I would go through 10 times 200 comparisons, so 2000. This is where the algorithm is the weakest.
  - On one side we can reduce the size of the analysed batch with the filters mentioned previously.
  - On the other side we could decide that if one score is higher than 5, we would suggest this picture and not analyse the rest.
  - Finally, we could transform the analysed pictures into a hash where the descriptions are the keys and the values are the pictures if higher than 0.85 score, so we could return pictures matching the 3 highest score of the chosen picture directly.

- 4 - I sort the array of pictures ranked into and pick the required batch.
  
## Technology

Ruby

Rspec

## Install

```md
bundle install
```

## Test

### Run

```md
rspec
```

### Results

```md
PicturePicker
  select the most similar images
    taking into account only the description
      retuns the picture with the highest similarity score
      retuns 3 pictures with the highest similarity score
    taking into account the description and the score
      retuns the picture with the highest similarity score
      retuns 3 pictures with the highest similarity score

Finished in 0.01217 seconds (files took 0.08182 seconds to load)
4 examples, 0 failures
```

## Execute Linter auto-correct

```md
bundle exec rbprettier --write '**/*.rb'
```

Commit message:

Simplifed algorithm and added file validation

README.md, after:

# Picture Picker

This program has been created to enable the selection of the most similar pictures from a list of pictures. Those pictures have been labelled with Google Vision API. (example in the JSON file)

## Use case

A user posts a picture on an app, we might assume that they would be interested in posts similar to theirs, or at least referring to similar content. One way to do this might be to find other posts with similar images to theirs. As an example, we have a dataset of labels from the Google Cloud Vision API from 20 plant images.
(see `data.json`).

## Challenge

If I were to post any one of the 20 images, which of the other 19 would be relevant to show to me as "other posts like yours"?

Write an algorithm that uses the data we provide to figure out which images are most similar.

## Approach

To begin, I searched how data could be used to compare those pictures. I found that each picture has a list of labels with 2 key information:

- the label description (which is what Google Cloud API identifies)

- the score (which is the confidence the ML model has in its relevance)

I started to only use the label and create the algorithm, then I added the score and the option to return a batch of best pictures.

- 1 - I gather the information about the picture we want to find a similar picture to. I call it 'chosen pic'. In this particular case, this is one picture from the data file. In a real situation, the posted picture would go through the Google Cloud Vision API and return the same data format. So, I go through the data and get the description from each label, which gives me the 'chosen descs'.

  - Here I could narrow down those descriptions by taking only those with a score higher than 0.85 for example, so, I would optimize its efficiency.

- 2 - I gather the information about the pictures we already have in order to show the most relevant one. Here, this is where there is a higher level of complexity because we have to run the same algorithm as for one picture but for all pictures.

  - We could have all previously analysed pictures already ready to compare and do an updated analysis from the ML from time to time. Also, we could place filters to reduce the number of analysed pictures, such as date posted, location or number of likes.

- 3 - I rank every picture comparison to the chosen picture. Here, I go through every description of every picture and I increment the rank if the description matches, on average, this file has 10 descriptions for one picture. So, if I compare 1 picture to 1 picture, I would go through 10 times 10 comparisons, so 100. For, 20 pictures, I would go through 10 times 200 comparisons, so 2000. This is where the algorithm is the weakest.

  - On one side we can reduce the size of the analysed batch with the filters mentioned previously.
  - On the other side we could decide that if one score is higher than 5, we would suggest this picture and not analyse the rest.
  - Finally, we could transform the analysed pictures into a hash where the descriptions are the keys and the values are the pictures if higher than 0.85 score, so we could return pictures matching the 3 highest score of the chosen picture directly.

    - **UPDATE** I updated the algorithm to be more efficient. As the similarity score is the number of matching description labels among two arrays, instead of comparing each label one by one, I would join the 2 arrays of descriptions, which could give me an array of 20 elements. The number of similarities are the number of duplicates in the array, so I can just deduce the number of element in the array after `.uniq` to the total number of elements before `.uniq`. Now, the complexity is greatly reduced.

- 4 - I sort the array of pictures ranked into and pick the required batch.

## Technology

Ruby

Rspec

## Install

```md
bundle install
```

## Test

### Run

```md
rspec
```

### Results

```md
PicturePicker
select the most similar images
taking into account only the description
retuns the picture with the highest similarity score
retuns 3 pictures with the highest similarity score
taking into account the description and the score
retuns the picture with the highest similarity score
retuns 3 pictures with the highest similarity score

Finished in 0.01217 seconds (files took 0.08182 seconds to load)
4 examples, 0 failures
```

## Execute Linter auto-correct

```md
bundle exec rbprettier --write '\*_/_.rb'
```
